Create Whole Project Structure (#1)
ionic-team/OSGeolocationLib-iOS: README.md

# OSGeolocationLib

A Swift library for iOS that provides simple, reliable access to device GPS capabilities. Get location data, monitor position changes, and manage location services with a clean, modern API.

[![License](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/OSGeolocationLib.svg)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/OSGeolocationLib)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/OSGeolocationLib.svg)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/OSGeolocationLib)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/OSGeolocationLib.svg)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/OSGeolocationLib)

## Requirements

> - iOS 14.0+

Reviewer: The deployment target on podspec is set to ios 13, so should it be updated there? Does cordova (and MABS for that matter) also require ios 14? Because if they require 13, that would cause an error no?

Author: The podspec was wrong. 
The minimum MABS version we support (10) has iOS 14 as its minimum supported version.

- Swift 5.0+
- Xcode 15.0+

## Installation

### CocoaPods

`OSGeolocationLib` is available through [CocoaPods](https://cocoapods.org). Add this to your Podfile:

```ruby
pod 'OSGeolocationLib', '~> 1.0.0'  # Use the latest 1.0.x version

> ```

Reviewer: The `prepare_release` workflow does not update this version automatically right? Not saying that it should, just confirming with you. But now that I mention it, should it be updated on the pipeline as well?

Author: It should. I'll update the script to address this.

`OSGLOCLocationHandler` serves has the base for both `OSGLOCSingleLocationHandler` and `OSGLOCMonitorLocationHandler`. More on both later.

#### Current Location Property

```swift
var currentLocation: OSGLOCPositionModel?
```

It returns the device's latest fetched location position. It can be `nil` if there hasn't been a request or in case of some issue occuring while fetching it. 
`OSGLOCPositionModel` is composed by the following properties:
- `altitude`: Altitude above mean sea level, measured in meters (m);
- `course`: Direction in which the device is travelling, measured in degrees (º) and relative to due north;
- `horizontalAccuracy`: Radius of uncertainty, measured in meters (m);
- `latitude`: Latitude of the geographical coordinate, measured in degrees (º) and relative to due north;
- `longitude`: Longitude of the geographical coordinate, measured in degrees (º) and relative to the zero meridian;
- `speed`: Instantaneous speed of the device, measured in meters per second (m/s);
- `timestamp`:  Time at which this location was determined, measured in milliseconds (ms) elapsed since the UNIX epoch (Jan 1, 1970);

> - `verticalAccuracy`: Validity of the altitude values and their estimated uncertainty, measured in meters (m).

Reviewer: This phrase feels a bit weird to me, I think it could be simplified

```suggestion
- `verticalAccuracy`: Estimated uncertainty of the altitude value, measured in meters (m).
```

What do you think?

Reviewer 2: I think "accuracy" is actually the correct term 😅

Author: This was copy-pasted from [Apple's documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/corelocation/cllocation/verticalaccuracy) related to the property we're using for it.

Reviewer 2: Oh ok, in that case your version makes the most sense.

### `OSGLOCSingleLocationHandler`

It's responsible to trigger one-time deliveries of the device's current location. It's composed by the following:
- a method that requests the user's current location position. 

#### Request Device's Current Location

```swift
func requestSingleLocation()
```

The method returns immediately. By calling it, it triggers an update to `currentLocation` and a new element delivery by `currentLocationPublisher`.

### `OSGLOCMonitorLocationHandler`

It's responsible for the continuous generation of updates that report the device's current location position. It's composed by the following:
- a method that starts the generation of updates;
- a method that ends the generation of updates. 

#### Start Monitoring the Device's Position

```swift
func startMonitoringLocation()
```

The method returns immediately. By calling it, it triggers an update to `currentLocation` and signals `currentLocationPublisher` to continuously emit relevant location updates.

#### Stop Monitoring the Device's Position

```swift
func stopMonitoringLocation()
```

The method should be called whenever you no longer need to received location-related events.

> ## Quick Start

Reviewer: I think it makes sense for the  `Quick Start` to go higher up in the README, if someone wants to start quickly, this should be one of the first things to be read.

> This library is currently used by the Geolocation Plugin for OutSystems' [Cordova](https://google.com) and [Capacitor](https://google.com) Plugins. Please check the library usage there for real use-case scenarios.

Reviewer: I think the repo links can be updated no? Suppose the capacitor repo name may change, but I assume it will still be that repo (Github will take care of the redirect until we change it here)

```suggestion
This library is currently used by the Geolocation Plugin for OutSystems' [Cordova](https://github.com/ionic-team/cordova-outsystems-geolocation) and Ionic's [Capacitor](https://github.com/ionic-team/outsystems-geolocation) Plugins. Please check the library usage there for real use-case scenarios.
```

Author: Wasn't sure about the links so just left them open. I'm still not sure about Capacitor's.

Author: I updated it but without introducing the `Ionic's` part.

Reviewer: In android lib repo "Ionic" is mentioned explicitly - https://github.com/ionic-team/OSGeolocationLib-Android/pull/1/files#diff-b335630551682c19a781afebcf4d07bf978fb1f8ac04c6bf87428ed5106870f5R26

Pulling @alexgerardojacinto  in - just to confirm what should be the way we reference the repos.

Reviewer 2: Why can't we include "Ionic"? The repo is under the Ionic GitHub organization.

Author: It just doesn't make sense to separate - one for OutSystems and another for Ionic - especially considering that the Cordova Plugin also lives within the Ionic organisation.
Also, both plugins have `outsystems` in their naming.
